---
title: A curse, grammar anxiety
pubtime: 2022-02-21T07:16:04.714Z
hero:
---

Hi.

Recently, I wrote several archives in English.
At that time, of course including now, I've been conscious of grammatical correctness.

In my student days, I was studying English as the second langauge.
I studied it and took a large amount of time by reading grammar books and wordbooks.
But I cannot use english naturally. Why is it?

One reason, I guess, is that there is the assumption that the grammar is prior to anything, when understanding the second language.
It is reasonable to start from understanding the grammar for learning it.
Since it is descriptive knowledges and is much more easy to acquire than getting knowledges by experiences.

Besides, we are taught the grammar with sensuous explanations, like

> _"articles are expressing the outline of the object. so a word with non-article is expressing food since it has no outline of the object. blabla..."_

We cannot understand the grammar with such fuzzy explanations.
I think that the explanations will be better when it is formed with facts, like

> _"Words with non-article like 'dog' are felt as food, since english speakers usually use words with non-article for expressing food preferences"_

The grammar should be the extracted patterns of the real world examples, not the rules.

So, since I learnt english with such, I'm always bothered with the correctness of my usage, though there is no need to be correct.
It is something like a curse😈
